[music]
>> Everyone in the AI world wanted to be
here. Particularly if you happen to be
the head of OpenAI,
Google, Anthropic, or even France.
Because it's here in India where tech
giants including Amazon, Google, and
Microsoft have pledged to invest over
67.5
billion dollars to deepen their AI
footprint.
And despite some local opposition,
that's just for starters. India's tech
minister Ashwini Vaishnaw expects
[music] more than 200 billion dollars of
investments in the AI sector over the
next 2 years.
The fact that India [music] has drawn
all of these AI figures shows that India
is a market that none of them can
ignore.
And the rankings reflect that.
In Stanford University's global AI
index, which compares talent,
infrastructure, governance, and even
public opinion, India comes in third
[music] behind only China and the US.
So, as big tech opens its even bigger
wallet, [music] India now has to figure
out how much space it should reserve for
its own players.
India knows very well it's not going to
be able to develop [music] the next
OpenAI anytime soon. So, startups
instead are focusing on developing
real-world [music] solutions for India's
diverse markets, which once proven here
can be exported to the global south.
With India [music] fast becoming AI's
largest laboratory, the question is, can
it catch up [music] with Beijing and
Silicon Valley to also become one of its
architects?
>> [music]
>> The world is enthralled by this massive
[music]
AI race between the US and China and
there is very [music] little attention
paid to the rest of the players in the
AI space.
But the juice could well be worth the
squeeze. India has always sort of prided
itself about coming in from behind and
then landing in [music] uh one of the
leading spots. Here we have a majestic
lift off of LVM3 M4 rocket carrying
India's prestigious Chandrayaan-3
spacecraft.
For instance, when India uh sent its
[music] mission to the moon, the entire
mission cost less than what a Hollywood
movie on space [music] was costing.
And so India really wants to build uh AI
in much similar way. People are
applauding.
And there are many factors indicating
that the country is well positioned to
be a leader in AI. Just maybe not in the
way China and the US are.
India has the second highest number of
internet users in the world, more than
double the US.
This is largely thanks to the country's
vast digital infrastructure. India has
more than 700 million smartphone users.
It has access to cheap data. It has
digital payment platforms [music] and
public identity platforms. That scale is
unmatched by any other country except
China.
The data generated by all of the Indians
using their devices is is massive and
and that is a gold mine.
There is not any other country that can
generate this scale of data.
You know, China um
has been cut off for for the Western
companies for the longest time. So it's
really now
only India with over a billion people
that can generate that kind of data.
Big tech companies have been competing
to harvest this data, with some even
offering free subscriptions to their AI
chatbots in India.
>> [music]
>> Whether it's OpenAI's models or Google's
models, a lot of these [music] are
running out of human-generated data to
train their models. Where is the next
wave of human-generated data going to
come from? It will come from countries
like India, because the more Indians
that use it, the more AI training data
will be generated, and that will refine
these models much more and make them so
much better.
But, not everyone agrees with this
approach.
There is a feeling among some [music]
that we should not be giving away all
our data to foreign companies. Beyond
the volume of data lies something
equally powerful, the diversity embedded
within [music] it. And this is what
makes India so valuable to foreign AI
companies. India is the world's most
populous country. It also has hundreds
of languages. The economic diversity and
the financial diversity of this country
is also unmatched.
According to the country's latest
census, India has at least 121 major
languages.
But, while Hindi is the world's most
widely spoken language after English and
Mandarin, only about 0.1%
of freely available online text is in
this language.
Counterintuitively, this may actually be
one of India's biggest advantages.
>> [music]
>> If applications are tested in India and
they work here, they'll probably work in
any other part of the world.
The other reason big AI is fixated on
India is the country's growing and
potentially lucrative middle class.
India's fledgling middle class is
actually a boon for AI because it
creates [music] demand-led AI. The AI
applications and solutions developed in
India can be tested with this
data-hungry middle class who's very keen
to use digital applications.
India's middle class is projected to
grow from roughly 31% of the population
in 2021 to nearly 60% by 2047.
India has always been a massive market
for technology companies. The world's
largest base of YouTube users is in this
country. Hi guys, Namaste Gamers and
welcome back to my channel. The world's
largest base of Instagram users [music]
is in India.
Which takes us to the final and maybe
most important factor that gives India
an edge. It's talent.
India has among the highest number of
engineers in the world. India's
engineers know how to use AI in very
messy, large-volume environments.
According to some estimates, India
produces around 1.5 million engineering
graduates every year.
That's equivalent to the whole
population of Dallas or Milan.
My name is Kezia. I'm currently doing my
masters in artificial intelligence and
machine learning.
AI field, AI engineer, all these jobs,
they are very much like an eye candy, I
would say, to [music]
young people these days. Now, the idea
that they can learn and understand and
at times even reason with us, such a
thing was very curious to know, and
that's when ChatGPT also happened. So,
that's when I was like, let me hop onto
this industry as quick as possible.
>> [music]
>> There's certainly a fear
amongst Indians that the technology
services industry that helped a lot of
Indians catapult into the middle class
and the upper middle class. A lot of
these jobs are going away because
[music] of AI.
And that's before you get to the huge
Indian services industry, which AI could
partially replace.
But at the same [music] time, a lot of
these AI tools and systems will need
talent [music] to make them function
optimally. There will be talent needed
for that.
But for all the things that India has
going for it, there are some key
ingredients that the country is still
missing.
AI needs a huge infrastructure
built for it to flourish, and India
still doesn't have that.
India lacks the kind of fundamental
research and access [music] to deep
capital and compute that would be needed
to build an open AI's ChatGPT anytime
soon.
Remember this chart? While India is
ahead of both China and the US in terms
of its AI talent, it's significantly
behind in most other metrics, including
research and development and investment.
Which is why instead of building
capital-intensive large language models,
many Indian AI companies are choosing to
build new apps [music] using existing
models. Such is the case with Indian
startup Emergent.
Emergent is an AI app builder that
allows anyone to build mobile apps, web
apps just by coming and prompting
into our interface.
When we saw this whole, you know,
ChatGPT moment happen,
it felt like there was a moment now to
sort of really automate all of software
engineering.
>> [music]
>> So, a lot of people ask me, does India
have its own OpenAI or DeepSeek?
I don't think so.
But does India want to build an its own
open AI or deep seek?
I don't think so either.
To be sure, India recently launched its
first two sovereign large language
models, but they came more than three
years after the launch of ChatGPT and
one year after the release of Deep
Seek's R1 model. For many in the AI
world, that would easily be considered
an eternity.
And the country faces other challenges,
too.
Decision-making is excruciatingly slow
in this country. Domestic capital is
still scarce. India needs the Western
players to come in and build those parts
of the AI ecosystem,
>> [music]
>> such as the AI data centers, bring in
the big models.
Prime Minister Narendra Modi's
government knows this, which is why it's
been working to attract leading AI
companies into India.
Design
and develop in India.
Deliver to the world.
The Indian Finance Minister offered a
massive tax [music] break to uh foreign
hyperscalers.
And the strategy is clearly working.
Reliance has [music] its investing more
than a hundred billion dollars in AI.
The National Payments Corporation of
India, they're saying they're partnering
with Nvidia.
>> [music]
>> The question is whether India will be
able to balance embracing foreign big
tech companies while still ensuring its
AI sovereignty.
India's not trying to win the AI race.
It's trying to [music] redefine what
winning at scale looks like. Whether it
can
uh make AI work in healthcare, in
education, but will make them very
contextual to
>> [music]
>> industries. And that could be a model
that then gets easily transported out
into the world, and I think that is what
in India is hoping to do.
>> [music]
>> Mhm.